GOLF - MICKELSON WINS FOURTH TITLE OF YEAR IN AKRON .
AKRON , Ohio 1996-08-25
Phil Mickelson birdied two of the last three holes to win World Series of Golf by three strokes over Billy Mayfair on Sunday .
It was the fourth tournament title this year for Mickelson , who shot an even-par 70 , after being tied for the lead with Billy Mayfair with three holes to play .
Along with Mayfiar at 277 for the tournament were Steve Stricker , who had a 68 , and Duffy Waldorf , with a 66 .
" It was very hard to sleep last night because there was so much I could accomplish with this win , " said Mickelson , who had a three-stroke lead entering the third round . "
This was a win I wanted very , very much . "
Mickelson 's victory gave him a 10 year exemption to the PGA Tour .
The $ 378,000 first place check brings Mickelson back to the top of the money list with $ 1,574,799 won this year .
" This is a major championship golf course , and for me to perform well on this style of course is a big step up for me in my career and my performance in future majors , " he said .
Mickelson three-stroke lead was cut to two when Mayfair birdied the course 's only easy hole , the par five second hole , while Mickelson three-putted for par from 25 feet .
On the back nine Mickelson began driving erratically , and poor tee shots resulted in bogeys on the , eighth , 12th and 13th holes , bringing Mickelson back to four under par , tied with Mayfair , who had parred 14 straight holes after the birdie on no.2 .
Mickelson then set up a tap in birdie on the 16th , sending a wedge shot to 18 inches .
He had another birdie on the 17th , where he his a 6-iron to six feet .
Mayfair bogeyed the 17th , missing a five foot par putt , and dropped from solo second place to a three way tie for second .
It was the second successive year in which Mayfair has finished runner up in this tournament .
He lost to Greg Norman in sudden death last year .
The defending champion was in contention , two behind Mickelson for much of the day , until he bogeyed the 13th and 14th holes .