India says sees no arms race with China , Pakistan .
NEW DELHI 1996-08-22
India said on Thursday that its opposition to a global nuclear test ban treaty did not mean New Delhi intended to enter into an arms race with neighbouring Pakistan and China .
Foreign Minister I.K. Gujral was asked at a news conference if India 's decision to block adoption of the accord in Geneva would lead to an arms race with Pakistan and China .
" I do n't see that possibility because India is not entering into any arms race , " he said . "
Our not signing a new treaty does not mean we are going in for any new kind of weapons , particularly nuclear . "
China , along with Britain , France , Russia and the United States , is a declared nuclear power .
India carried out a nuclear test in 1974 but says it has not built the bomb .
Experts believe both India and Pakistan could quickly assemble nuclear weapons .
Gujral said he did not expect India 's veto of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty ( CTBT ) to damage bilateral ties with other nations .
" I do not visualise its straining our bilateral relations with any country .
The text has already been blocked , " he said .
Gujral said India would re-examine its position if the treaty , particularly a clause providing for its entry into force , was modified .
Asked what India would do if the pact were forwarded to the United Nations General Assembly , Gujral said : " That bridge I will cross when I come to it . "
In a written statement released at the news conference , Gujral reiterated India 's objections to the treaty , under negotiation at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva .
" It is a sad fact that the nuclear weapon states show no interest in giving up their nuclear hegemony , " the statement said .
Gujral said India had national security concerns that made it impossible for New Delhi to sign the CTBT .
" Our security concerns oblige us to maintain our nuclear option , " he said , adding that India had exercised restraint in not carrying out any nuclear tests since the country 's lone test blast in 1974 .
He said : " We cannot accept constraints on our option as long as nuclear weapon states continue to rely on their nuclear arsenals for their security " .