BASEBALL - ORIOLES SNEAK PAST ANGELS .
BALTIMORE 1996-08-25
Rafael Palmeiro 's two-out single in the sixth inning scored Roberto Alomar with the go-ahead run as the Baltimore Orioles rallied past the California Angels 5-4 and took over the American League 's wild-card berth on Saturday .
The Orioles trailed 4-3 when pinch-hitter Mike Devereaux led off the sixth with a triple against reliever Kyle Abbott ( 0-1 ) and scored the tying run on Alomar 's single .
After Brady Anderson sacrificed , Palmeiro hit the first pitch into right field for a single , scoring Alomar .
In Boston , former Mariner Darren Bragg 's first career grand slam in the sixth inning off reliever Randy Johnson lifted the Boston Red Sox to their fifth win in six games , a 9-5 victory over Seattle .
" Just one of those things , I was just trying to make contact , " said Bragg . "
The bases were loaded and I had two strikes .
I was just trying to put the ball in play .
I got the good part of the bat on it and it carried out . "
In Cleveland , Kevin Seitzer 's two-out single in the top of the 10th brought home David Hulse with the winning run as the Milwaukee Brewers sent the Cleveland Indians to their third straight extra-inning defeat 4-3 .
Bob Wickman ( 5-1 ) , acquired from the New York Yankees on Friday , earned the win in his Milwaukee debut despite allowing the tying run in the eighth inning .
At Minnesota , Marty Cordova and Matt Lawton hit solo homers and Frankie Rodriguez allowed six hits over seven innings to earn his first win as a starter in a month as the Minnesota Twins held on to beat the Texas Rangers 6-5 .
" Yeah , you know it 's fun , it 's always fun when you 've got a chance to go to the ballpark and win a game that 's important , " said Rodriguez . "
Every game should be important , but it 's a little more important now . "
In New York , Wally Whitehurst allowed two runs over seven innings for his first win in more than two years and Paul O'Neill 's three-run double snapped a sixth-inning tie as the New York Yankees held on for a 5-4 victory over the Oakland Athletics .
Whitehurst , promoted from Triple-A Columbus on Wednesday , allowed seven hits and struck out one without a walk .
It was his first win since defeating the St. Louis Cardinals on May 28th , 1994 when he was with the San Diego Padres .
In Kansas City , Jose Rosado came within one out of his third complete game and Michael Tucker homered and drove in three runs as the Kansas City Royals broke a six-game losing streak with a 9-2 victory over the Detroit Tigers in a battle of cellar-dwellers .
Rosado ( 5-3 ) allowed two runs -- one earned -- and seven hits over 8-2/3 innings with three walks and six strikeouts .
In his last four starts , the 21-year-old left-hander has given up only four earned runs in 29-2/3 innings .