Scandal hits Clinton campaign at vital moment .
Michael Conlon
CHICAGO 1996-08-29
President Bill Clinton 's triumphal appearance at the Democratic convention , a vital moment in his bid for a second term , was marred on Thursday by the resignation of a top adviser in a reported sex scandal .
Clinton was at work on the nomination acceptance speech that will launch his 10-week re-election campaign when political strategist Dick Morris abruptly announced his resignation on Thursday .
The tabloid Star magazine reported the married Morris had a lengthy affair with a $ 200-an-hour prostitute who he allowed to eavesdrop on telephone conversations with Clinton , and with whom he shared White House speeches before they were made .
" Dick Morris is my friend , and he is a superb political strategist , " Clinton said in a written statement . "
I am and always will be grateful for the great contributions he has made to my campaigns and for the invaluable work he has done for me over the last two years . "
Morris declined to address the allegations directly in his resignation statement but said he was quitting to avoid becoming a campaign issue .
The surprise development captivated the thousands of reporters at the convention and clearly worried some Democrats , who had planned a triumphal celebration of Clinton 's lead over Dole in the opinion polls .
Senator Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat , called it a " big bump " in the way of the Clinton campaign .
" It comes at the worst possible time on one of the biggest days for the president , " Feinstein said .
Clinton was to deliver his acceptance speech at the final session of the Democratic Convention opening at 8 p.m. EDT ( midnight GMT ) .
The 50-year-old president has been dogged for years by allegations of financial wrongdoing , sexual misconduct and questionable judgment in selecting his advisers .
Republicans hope to seize on the " character " issue to bolster Clinton 's challenger Bob Dole in the final weeks of the campaign .
Speaking in Santa Barbara , California , Dole did not directly refer to the sexual scandal but said the departure of Morris , who had advised Clinton to chart a more centrist political course , would make Clinton drift back to the left .
" Morris has been trying to make President Clinton a Republican , now maybe he 'll revert to the liberal Democrat that he really is , " Dole told reporters .
Clinton will hit the road on Friday for a bus tour across several states in his fight to become the first Democratic incumbent re-elected to a second term since the days of Franklin D. Roosevelt .
Aides said Clinton planned to spend most of Thursday in his hotel room several miles ( km ) from the convention hall working on his speech .
It was apparently neglected on his long " whistle-stop " train trip to the convention , during which he revelled in contact with friendly crowds across the country 's heartland .
He was also hoarse and was giving his voice a rest .
But first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton told ABC television , " He 's really fired up . "
" He wants to outline to the American people what he thinks has been accomplished in the last four years , and what he would like to see done in the next four years , " she said .
" He 's very excited about this convention ...
He 's excited about the campaign .
But more than that , he 's very resolute about what he wants to do . "
" I do n't take anything for granted .
I always expect elections to get close .
I expect to have a great deal of up and down days between now and then , " she said of the November 5 election date .
Clinton is leading Dole by as much as 15 points according to some polls .
The campaign pits Dole , a man of quick and withering wit and long-time public service , but stilted speaking style , against the glib and confident Clinton , who has perfected a style that makes direct eye contact with his audience .