Slovak women visited Dutroux , police say .
Peter Laca
BRATISLAVA 1996-08-27
Marc Dutroux , the chief accused in Belgium 's sensational child murder and sex abuse case , visited Slovakia a number of times and about 10 young Slovak women went to Belgium at his invitation , police said on Tuesday .
But they have difficulty remembering what happened there , perhaps because of drugs , and are unsure whether they were filmed for pornography , Rudolf Gajdos , head of the Slovak office of Interpol , told Reuters .
Although Gajdos spoke of " girls " his deputy , Eva Boudova , said the case involved about 10 young women in their early 20s .
" The police interrogated several Slovak girls who said that they had been invited by Mark Dutroux to visit Belgium , " Gajdos said .
" The girls said they went to Belgium voluntarily and the police suspect that they were used to act in pornographic films . "
" The police suspect ( the girls ) were under the influence of drugs as some girls admitted they took unspecified pills . "
" We have suspicions of a rape , but the police still have to find the victim , " Gajdos added .
Dutroux 's last visit to Slovakia was reported to have been as recent as July .
Slovak police are also cooperating with Belgium in the search for An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks , who went missing last August .
Dutroux , 39 , who was charged last week with the abduction and illegal imprisonment of two other girls aged 14 and 12 , is one of several suspects in the Marchal and Lambrecks case .
Last Saturday he led police to the bodies of two other girls , aged eight , who died of starvation this year after their abduction in June , 1995 .
The Czech office of Interpol said on Friday it would neither confirm nor deny that Dutroux had been in the Czech Republic , Slovakia 's western neighbour and former federation partner .
Belgian police said an officer had visited Bratislava to talk with Slovak detectives about An and Eefje and other disappearances , and he planned to go also to Prague .