Dole blasts Clinton for ignoring teen drug use .
Judith Crosson
VENTURA , Calif. 1996-08-28
Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole Wednesday accused the Clinton administration of ignoring drug use among teenagers and said if elected he would use the National Guard to stop drugs from entering the United States .
" He 'll probably mention his war on drugs , which he 's going to start like everything else -- next year .
It 's too late , Mr. President , " Dole told an outdoor crowd of several hundred at a private religious school .
He also commented briefly on published reports that the administration was planning to announce a plan to lower capital gains taxes for home sales . "
Welcome to the club .
We 've had it out there for weeks and weeks and weeks , " Dole said .
Dole said former first lady Nancy Reagan was laughed at with her " just say no " anti-drug message . "
But it worked , " Dole said .
Meanwhile , in Los Angeles , Dole 's running mate , Jack Kemp , campaigned aggressively for the black vote in an area that was the flashpoint of the 1992 Los Angeles riots .
Kemp told a crowd of about 300 African Americans in south central Los Angeles , " Keep your eyes open , keep your ears open , keep your heart open .
I want to tell you with all my heart that we want to win your vote . "
In Dole 's address to a group that was largely white , the presidential nominee likened the stream of illegal drugs into the United States to missiles aimed at American children and promised to appoint federal judges who would be tough on illegal drug use .
" They 're aiming millions and millions of missiles right at these young people , whether it 's a needle , whether it 's a cigarette , whatever the delivery system is -- it 's poison and it 's got to stop in America . "
he said .
Dole said 70 percent of the cocaine that entered the United States and 40 percent of the marijuana came from Mexico . "
We 've got an international problem and I 'm prepared to use our military might .
We want to stop drugs at the border , " he said .
Dole 's remarks prompted questions about whether he was seeking a ban on cigarettes . "
I did n't say anything about cigarettes .
I was talking about drugs .
I said you should n't smoke either .
That 's all I said , " he replied as he was shaking hands with well-wishers .
When asked specifically if he was suggesting a ban on cigarettes , Dole replied : " Oh no .
Come on , you know better than that . "
Dole campaign aides said the candidate was telling young people not to smoke .
Dole also said he opposed California Proposition 215 which , if approved by voters , would allow the cultivation of marijuana plants for medicinal uses .
Dole said the initiative would allow marijuana to be used for anything from a headache to an ingrown toenail .
In an effort to paint the drug issue in non-political terms , Dole said three times during his 20-minute address that illegal drug use was neither a Democratic nor a Republican issue but one that involves all people .
The anti-drug message is a theme Dole feels has strong voter appeal .
On Sunday near Chicago he accused President Bill Clinton of " raising the white flag " in the war on drugs .
A recent survey showed that illegal drug use among 12-17 year-olds had doubled in the past four years .
Dole was flanked by several California Republican politicians including Gov .
Pete Wilson , who said local and state governments cannot fight illegal drugs alone .
" We need all the help we can get .
We need to get the kind of help we used to get when Ronald Reagan and George Bush were in the White House , " Wilson said .