Sudanese rebels say missionaries should be freed .
Peter Smerdon
NAIROBI 1996-08-27
The main rebel group in south Sudan said on Tuesday it was trying to arrange the release of six Roman Catholic missionaries , including three Australian nuns , held for nearly two weeks .
George Garang , Nairobi spokesman for the Sudan People 's Liberation Army ( SPLA ) , said it was urgently trying to contact SPLA commander Nuour Marial at Mapourdit in the south to free the six .
" The movement is making arrangements for them to be set free .
This is a decision of the leadership , " Garang said .
" Commander Nuour Marial is a soldier so he must accept the leadership 's decision .
But communications at this time of year are very difficult because of rains and a lack of power , " he added .
The Catholic Information Office in Nairobi said on Monday that four of the six had been charged by the SPLA with spying , spreading Islam and hindering recruitment into the rebel group .
" These charges are the interpretation of the church , " Garang said on Tuesday . "
We have no idea why they are being held .
We are still trying to establish contact with the local commander . "
Asked whether this meant the commander was out of control , Garang said the rebel movement was working on the problem .
He said he believed all six were being held in the mission compound at Mapourdit and were reported to be in good health .
The Catholic Information office in Nairobi said on Monday that Australian Sisters Moira Lynch , 73 , and Mary Batchelor , 68 , American Father Michael Barton , 48 , and Sudanese Father Raphael Riel , 48 , were held in a prison in south Sudan by the SPLA .
It said Australian Sister Maureen Carey , 52 , and Italian Brother Raniero Iacomella , 28 , were held inside the compound .
The church in Australia said on Monday Lynch , Batchelor , Barton and Riel were held in a prison until the weekend , when they were moved to join the other captives at the compound .
The Catholic Information Office said the SPLA in the Kenyan capital had attributed the detentions of the six to a local commander and had promised they would be freed by August 23 .
But the church learned in a recent meeting with the local commander that no instructions to release the prisoners were received and they would be held until investigations were completed .
It said last Friday they were visited by Monsignor Caesar Mazzolari , apostolic administrator of the diocese of Rumbek in southern Sudan , and an SPLA administrator and appeared in good condition .
" On August 17 the mission was surrounded ( by the SPLA ) and sealed off .
The evening of the same day the missionaries were put in prison or isolation .
Later the mission was looted , " it added .
An Australian foreign ministry official said the charges against them were " fairly bizarre " and a matter for concern .
He said Australian diplomats in Nairobi were working with the Roman Catholic church in southern Sudan and with U.S. and Italian diplomats in the region to help free the missionaries .
The SPLA has fought Khartoum 's government forces in the south since 1983 for greater autonomy or independence of the mainly Christian and animist region from the Moslem , Arabised north .