ATHLETICS - JOHNSON , CHRISTIE , BAILEY TO RUN OWENS RELAY .
Adrian Warner
BERLIN 1996-08-29
Olympic champions Michael Johnson and Donovan Bailey and former champion Linford Christie will run in a " Dream Team " sprint relay squad in honour of Jesse Owens on Friday .
Johnson , the 200 metres world record holder , and Britain 's 1992 Olympic 100 champion Christie confirmed on Thursday that they would join 100 record holder Bailey and Namibia 's Frankie Fredericks in one of the greatest 4x100 squads ever assembled .
They will run against quartets from the United States , Europe and Africa in a special race at the Berlin Grand Prix meeting to mark the 60th anniversary of Owens 's four gold medals at the 1936 Olympics in the German capital .
Christie will run the anchor leg after Canada 's Bailey , American Johnson and Olympic silver medallist Fredericks have run the first three stages of the relay .
The participation of Bailey and Fredericks had been known before Thursday .
But Christie did not announce his decision to run until the eve of the meeting when organisers also confirmed Johnson would take part .
Christie is due to retire from international competition at the end of the season although he may compete for Britain in next season 's European Cup .
Although Christie , who is not racing the individual 100 metres in Berlin , took his time to agree to run , the veteran was clearly delighted to be part of the tribute to the black American .
When five former Olympic 100 champions from 1948 to 1980 , who have been invited to watch the race , turned up at a news conference on Thursday , Christie was quick to put his autograph book in front of the them .
" I do n't normally do this but can you please sign , " he said thrusting an ornate white book in front of Americans Harrison Dillard ( 1948 ) , Lindy Remigino ( 1952 ) , Jim Hines ( 1968 ) , Trinidad 's Hasely Crawford ( 1976 ) and Britain 's Allan Wells ( 1980 ) .
" Jesse Owens inspired everyone here and it is great to have a tribute to him . "
Owens 's widow Ruth is not well enough to attend but a message from her will be read out by the sprinter 's grand-daughter Gina Tillman during the meeting
Berlin organisers hoped to have American 1984 and 1988 champion Carl Lewis in the squad but he injured himself in last Friday 's Brussels meeting .