O.J. Simpson hints at more supporting evidence .
Jackie Frank
WASHINGTON 1996-08-29
O.J. Simpson said on Thursday he was financially broken by his defence against murder charges but he was hopeful new evidence to support him would be available for a civil trial next month .
The former football star was found not guilty by a criminal trial jury last October of the murders of his former wife , Nicole Brown Simpson , and her friend , Ronald Goldman , in June 1994 .
He now faces a civil suit brought by families of the victims who hold him responsible for the deaths .
He told reporters a court order not to talk about his case kept him from detailing how he has fulfilled his pledge to find the killers .
But he added without elaborating , " hopefully we will see some things come out in this next trial . "
The judge in the civil trial has imposed a sweeping gag order that prohibits lawyers , witnesses and parties to the case from discussing it with the media or elsewhere in public .
" I would love to speak about everything , " said Simpson , who vowed after his acquittal to find the killers and offered a substantial reward .
His lawyers have said his defence in the civil trial that starts Sept .
17 will be that he did not kill the victims .
Simpson said at the hotel news conference his plans include eventually writing another book .
He added that he has had job offers but more have come from abroad than at home .
" I 'm broke .
I am not crying the blues .
I can get along just fine , " he said . "
Whatever you want to send me , I need . "
He again accused the news media of erroneous reporting on his case but did not signal any plans for lawsuits as he did on Wednesday in an address at a jam-packed Washington church .
Contrary to news reports , Simpson said , he has received support from both blacks and whites .
He again dismissed charges that he had distanced himself from the black community during his successful football and commercial career , only to seek their support after he faced murder charges .
A crowd of 2,000 paid $ 10 a head to hear the former star running back for the Buffalo Bills professional football club and a Football Hall of Fame member on Wednesday night .
The crowd in the church was wildly supportive , showering Simpson with gifts and praise .
But outside , dozens of protesters from the D.C. Coalition Against Domestic Violence called for the church to support victims of violence instead .