Anti-abortion speaker praises Democrat tolerance .
Alan Elsner
CHICAGO 1996-08-27
An anti-abortion politician addressed the Democratic convention on Tuesday , but praised the overwhelmingly pro-abortion rights party for its tolerance of his minority views .
Rep .
Tony Hall of Ohio said he and other Democrats who opposed abortion had always felt left out in their own party .
" But this year is different .
For the first time , the Democratic Party has included in our platform a conscience clause , " he said .
The clause recognizes and welcomes Democrats with divergent views on abortion and states they have a full part to play at all levels of the party .
" The Democratic Party is indeed the party of true inclusiveness , " Hall said .
At its convention four years ago , organizers prevented then Pennsylvania Gov .
Robert Casey , a vehement opponent of abortion , from speaking .
Republicans have used their decision as an example of Democrat intolerance ever since .
Casey told a news conference in Chicago on Tuesday he had asked to speak again this year but was turned down .
Democratic leaders said there was not room on the program for every retired governor to speak .
" I believe the Democratic party ought to be pro-woman , pro-child and pro-life , " Casey said .
" I asked for the opportunity to deliver this message from the podium of the Democrat National Convention .
For the second time in four years , my request fell on deaf ears , " he said .
The Republican Party , whose platform calls for making all abortions illegal , faced a similar dilemma this year when Massachusetts Gov .
William Weld asked to deliver a speech defending abortion rights and was turned down .
Bob Dole , the Republican presidential nominee , tried and failed to insert a tolerance clause in his party 's platform recognizing the validity of those within the party who supported abortion rights .
Democrats also heard Tuesday two passionate speeches defending abortion rights .
Kate Michelman , president of the National Abortion Rights Action League , described how she had an abortion at a time when the procedure was illegal after her husband abandoned her with three young children .
" I 'm here to speak up for choice and to speak for truth .
The message from the Republican Party is one of disdain .
Their answer to choice is control and punishment .
Our answer is trust , compassion and respect , " she said .
Georgia Rep .
Cynthia McKinney said : " You make your moral decisions .
I 'll make mine and let 's leave ( Republican House Speaker ) Newt Gingrich out of it . "