SOCCER - PARMA , ROMA AND UDINESE OUT OF ITALIAN CUP .
ROME 1996-08-28
UEFA Cup hopefuls Parma and Roma , under new coaches this season , crashed out of the Italian Cup to second division opponents on Wednesday while league champions Milan could only draw 1-1 at humble Empoli .
Wealthy Parma , now coached by the former Italian international Carlo Ancelotti , were without new striker Enrico Chiesa and went down 3-1 at serie B club Pescara in their second round clash .
Pescara 's Ottavio Palladini shattered Parma with goals in the second and fourth minutes .
Midfielder Marco Giampaolo made it 3-0 in the 38th minute and Parma 's Alessandro Melli pulled back a late goal six minutes from time .
The second round was the entry point for the bulk of the serie A sides with the winners going through .
The later stages of the cup are played over two legs .
Parma 's defeat was a repeat of last season 's fiasco when they lost their opening cup match 3-0 to Palermo .
Roma , now coached by Argentine Carlos Bianchi and watched by Italian national coach Arrigo Sacchi , lost 3-1 to Cesena -- another repeat of last season when the Rome club also went out at the first hurdle .
Udinese , with Germany 's Euro ' 96 hero Oliver Bierhoff in their lineup , completed the hat-trick of beaten serie A sides when they went under 2-1 to newly relegated Cremonese .
Milan 's new Uruguayan coach Oscar Tabarez avoided the nightmare of defeat but faces a replay at home next Sunday .
Cup holders Fiorentina easily beat Cosenza 3-1 while European Cup holders Juventus also cruised through with a 2-0 win at small southern club Fidelis Andria .
Two other serie A sides lost at the weekend -- Piacenza and last year 's losing finalists Atalanta .
Two cup matches could not be played on Wednesday due to argument over first round results .
Lecce 's 3-0 weekend defeat of Genoa was expected to be overturned by a sporting judge on Thursday after the home club fielded an ineligible player .
That would set Genoa up for a second round match against local rivals Sampdoria .
Nocerina 's 4-3 defeat of Piacenza was also subject to a complaint , later removed , that forced their second round match against serie A newcomers Perugia to be delayed .