BASEBALL - YANKEES BRAWL AND CONTINUE TO SLIDE .
SEATTLE 1996-08-29
Jay Buhner hit a three-run homer and former Yankee Terry Mulholland allowed one run over seven innings as the Seattle Mariners completed a sweep of New York with a 10-2 victory in a game marred by a bench-clearing brawl .
Including the last three games of last October 's Divisional Playoff Series , the Mariners have beaten the Yankees 12 of the past 15 meetings overall and 14 of the last 16 in the Kingdome .
Five players were ejected after Yankees ' outfielder Paul O'Neill and Seattle catcher John Marzano got into a fight after O'Neill had been brushed back .
In Baltimore , Don Wengert threw a nine-hitter for his first shutout and Jose Herrera had a two-run double in a three-run fifth inning as the Oakland Athletics blanked the Baltimore Orioles 3-0 .
Wengert ( 7-9 ) , who failed to record a shutout in his previous 86 starts in either the minors or majors , did not walk a batter and struck out three for Oakland .
In Chicago , James Baldwin scattered five hits over seven scoreless innings and Ray Durham and Ozzie Guillen had RBI hits in the second inning as the Chicago White Sox blanked the Milwaukee Brewers 2-0 .
Baldwin ( 10-4 ) struck out four and did not walk a batter for Chicago , which won for only the fourth time in 15 games .
Dave Nilsson had three hits for the Brewers .
In Kansas City , Jose Offerman 's single with two out in the 12th inning scored Johnny Damon with the winning run and lifted the Kansas City Royals to a 4-3 victory over the Texas Rangers .
Rick Huisman ( 1-1 ) allowed one hit and a walk in the 12th to post his first major-league win .
In Toronto , Pat Hentgen tossed a five-hitter for his fifth consecutive complete game and three players drove in two runs apiece as the Toronto Blue Jays defeated the Minnesota Twins 6-1 for their ninth win in 11 games .
Hentgen ( 17-7 ) surrendered just three doubles and a pair of singles in tossing his major-league leading ninth complete game .
He walked three and struck out three in winning for the 10th time in his last 11 decisions .
In Detroit , Orel Hershiser recorded his fourth straight win and Albert Belle snapped a sixth-inning tie with a grand slam as the Cleveland Indians completed a season sweep of the Detroit Tigers with a 9-3 victory .
Hershiser ( 14-7 ) , who allowed three runs , eight hits and one walk with five strikeouts over seven innings , improved to 4-0 in his last six starts , including a pair of wins over Detroit in the last 11 days .
At California ,
In Seattle ,