RUGBY UNION - All Blacks relive triumph .
PRETORIA , Aug 25 - Captain Sean Fitzpatrick and his All Blacks revisited the test venue today to relive some of the magic moments of yesterday 's momentous rugby victory over South Africa , NZPA reported .
Most of the test 15 who beat the Springboks 33-26 to secure New Zealand 's first-ever rugby series in South Africa stood in the middle of the empty 50,000-seat Loftus Versfeld .
Magnificent , ' ' said Fitzpatrick , New Zealand 's most capped player and the world 's most capped forward .
The players relived the moves and tries , the tackles and what might have been as the emotions of victory continued .
Zinzan Brooke , the only No 8 in test rugby to have scored a dropped goal when he kicked a three-pointer against England during last year 's World Cup , added a second to his name yesterday .
I was right here , ' ' he said standing at the spot where he had received the ball for the kick .
The maul was there and I was going to go in but I thought I should hold off because we had the ball .
When ( halfback ) Justin Marshall got the ball he was going to go on the openside where Jon Preston was so I emptied my lung at him to get the ball this way .
I just hit through and I was punching the air before the ball got there .
It cost me a few bucks at the bar . '
'
The decision to attempt a dropped goal was a spontaneous one , Brooke said .
It was just like the World Cup , the ball came and the chance was there . '
'
Centre Frank Bunce said he had never felt so exhausted during a match .
We were gutted and there was nowhere to hide , they just kept coming at you , ' ' he said .
I was gone in the first 20 minutes , completely exhausted , but you had no choice .
There was just so much riding on it .
It 's amazing just how big this ground was yesterday . '
'
Two-try winger Jeff Wilson said he was so tired that he kept asking Bunce where he should be while defending .
He told me I 'm buggered too so just hang in there ' , ' ' Wilson recalled .
About 4000 New Zealander supporters were partying into the early hours of today in the South African capital .
Messages of goodwill continued to roll into the team hotel .
All Blacks coach John Hart said Prime Minister Jim Bolger rang him today to offer his congratulations .
He thanked us on behalf of the country , which is really nice for the team , and I understand we had tremendous support at home . '
'