TENNIS - QUENCH YOUR THIRST - IF YOU CAN AFFORD IT AT U.S. OPEN .
Bill Berkrot
NEW YORK 1996-08-26
A message on television monitors all around the National Tennis Centre reads : " Due to hot weather please seek shade and drink plenty of fluids " -- sound advice until you check out the price of fluids .
Perhaps the advisory was cut off before concluding : " ...and bring plenty of money . "
A small bottle of a garishly-coloured sports drink at the sun-drenched U.S. Open is going for $ 3.75 , while a litre of basic , life-sustaining water will set you back $ 4.00 -- for water ?
" At the Olympics water was only a dollar , and that was the Olympics , " said one incredulous fan , noting that the Atlanta Games had been notorious for price gouging .
U.S. Open officials managed to insult most of the male tennis players last week with their controversial handling of the seeding and draw .
When the tournament began on Monday it was the fans ' turn to be offended .
" That baked lasagna better be good for $ 8.50 , " said New Yorker Rebecca Weinstein , a U.S. Open regular who was eating a sandwich she had brought from home .
A trio of hungry fans at the food court who had already forked over the lasagna money pronounced it good , but Carol Perry chimed in , " The water is ridiculous , they want four dollars for the water , you might as well get a glass of wine . "
Indeed , a nice glass of chardonnay or white zinfandel was going for $ 4.75 , while an imported beer was just a bit more than the water at $ 4.50 .
What 's the message here ? "
Maybe they want us to be alcoholics , " Perry joked before lifting her glass of wine .
Fans will be shelling out $ 12.50 for a hamburger and a large french fries .
And that little snack is guaranteed to make you thirsty .
Make that $ 16.50 .
Even a sandwich as pedestrian as a ham and swiss cheese is going for a whopping $ 8.00 .
Of course , it is served on a tuscan roll .
It must be the cost of flying those rolls over from Tuscany every day that drives up the price of the sandwich .