TENNIS - EDBERG EXTENDS GRAND SLAM RUN , TOPPLES WIMBLEDON CHAMP .
Larry Fine
NEW YORK 1996-08-27
Stefan Edberg produced some of his vintage best on Tuesday to extend his grand run at the Grand Slams by toppling Wimbledon champion Richard Krajicek in straight sets at the U.S. Open .
Edberg , competing in the 54th consecutive and final Grand Slam event of his illustrious career , turned back the clock at Stadium Court with a flowing 6-3 6-3 6-3 serve-and-volley victory over the fifth-seeded Dutchman .
" It 's a win that I can be proud of , " said the 30-year-old Swede , winner of two U.S. Opens and six Grand Slam titles in all . "
It 's never easy to beat the Wimbledon champion . "
Edberg , who has said he will retire at season 's end , made it look easy under gray skies at the National Tennis Centre .
The unseeded Swede struck quickly , breaking Krajicek in the first game and never let loose his grip on the one hour 44 minute match as he served and volleyed with the grace that made him one of the dominant players of his time .
" There 's not doubt about it , Richard was definitely off his game and I took advantage , " said Edberg .
" I still have my days where I feel great out there . "
Also reaching the second round were top-seeded defending champion Pete Sampras , a 6-2 6-2 6-1 winner over last minute replacement Jimy Szymanski of Venezuela , called on after Adrian Voinea of Romania withdrew because of a sprained ankle .
Third seed Thomas Muster of Austria also charged into the second round with a 6-1 7-6 ( 7-2 ) 6-2 romp over Javier Frana of Argentina .
Marcelo Rios of Chile , the 10th seed , also advanced .
Rios claimed a 4-6 6-1 6-4 6-2 victory over Romania 's Andrei Pavel .
On the women 's side , second seed Monica Seles got off to a strong start by beating fellow-American Anne Miller 6-0 6-1 and was joined in the second round by Spain 's Arantxa Sanchez Vicario ( seeded third ) , Olympic champion Lindsay Davenport ( 8 ) and Karina Habsudova of Slovakia ( 17 ) .
The women 's draw lost another seed when Austrian Judith Wiesner overcame Iva Majoli of Croatia 2-6 6-3 6-1 .
The fifth- seeded Majoli joined Anke Huber ( 5 ) and Magdalena Maleeva ( 12 ) on the sidelines .